M



It's noon. Concerned parents are lined up outside the schools waiting to escort their kids home for lunch. Signs along the street ask "Wer ist der Morder?" (Who is the murderer?) of eight children killed over the past year. Little Elsie Beckmann [Inge Landgut] has just become victim number nine.
Who is the murderer? It could be anyone (the viewer knows that it is Hans Beckert [Peter Lorre]). Neighbors are turning in neighbors and fingering strangers in the street just for talking to a child. The police are on the job 24 hours a day, but all they have turned up so far is some Ariston cigarette butts, some sugar grains, and a bag that held candy. They have investigated over 1,500 clues and have compiled 60 volumes of documents. Every thicket, every bush, every hole in the area has been combed. Every place from flop houses to underworld hangouts are being raided every night.
A break comes in the person of a blind balloon peddlar [Georg John] who hears a man whistling a tune and remembers the same tune being whistled by a man who purchased a balloon on the day Elsie Beckmann was murdered. He alerts his block's beggar, who follows the Beckert, who is leading a little girl into a candy store. When Beckert makes the mistake of throwing an orange peel on the sidewalk, the beggar pretends to slip on it and, while clutching Beckert for support, he transfers onto the back of Beckert's shoulder a big "M" that he previously chalked on his palm. The beggars are now able to follow the man with the "M" on his coat.
Meanwhile, the police have been attempting to trace the origin of a postcard sent by the child killer to the local newspaper. While investigating released criminals and mental patients that fit the profile of the killer (lazy, indolent, and of strong and pathological sexuality), the police come to Hans Beckert's apartment. Beckert isn't home, but the landlady shows them in. Searching Beckert's room, they find some Ariston cigarettes and a red pencil, the likes of which was used to write the postcard. Certain that Beckert is the killer, the police lay in wait for Beckert to return.
Epilogue: As Beckert's real trial progresses, the mothers of the slain children listen to the verdict. The ultimate and final comment comes from Frau Beckmann [Ellen Widmann] who says that none of this will bring back the children and that mothers must keep a closer watch over them. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]




